Firing off an event was actually pretty easy to do,
and it may have surprised you how little code it took to actually fire off
an event since the event publisher and event model is already available to
you inside of a Spring‑enabled application.
I will say, though,
that the event listener is where more of the heavy lifting takes place,
and that's the portion we're going to do now.
So let's exit full‑screen mode here for a minute.
And in our util package that we created,
we're going to now create our event listener.
Let's right‑click and say New, Java Class.
And let's name this AccountListener.
And this class will actually implement the
ApplicationListener on the OnCreateAccountEvent.
So we want to do implements ApplicationListener.
And the object that it does this on is the OnCreateAccountEvent.
Now,
it's going to have some methods that it wants us to
create as part of this object.
So let's implement those.
There's an onApplicationEvent.
And this object will go through and allow us to do a couple of things.
You can actually add whatever you want inside of here,
but before we dive too far into this I want to start off by
registering this as a component inside of Spring.
So we can actually just say @Component.
And this object will already be a Spring bean and registered
inside of Spring to start listening for events.
The onApplicationEvent, let's just make this guy call this.confirmCreateAccount.
And we will pass in the event.
Now we haven't created this method, so let's do that now.
And we'll just make this a private void method called confirmCreateAccount.
And this is going to take the OnCeateAccountEvent as its method signature.
I'm going to just copy that from up above into here.
Now, let me just lay out the steps of what we need to do inside of here.
We're going to get the account, and that just comes out of the event.
We are going to then create a verification token,
and this is on us, it's not something inside of Spring.
We're going to actually create a verification token
and build our message off of that.
We are going to get the email properties.
And then inside of here, we are going to finally send our email.
So these are the steps we need to go through to build out what
this confirmCreateAccount is going to be.
There's two other pieces we need to configure inside of here.
We're going to autowire in our account service that we've created,
and we're going to autowire in the JavaMailSender.
The JavaMailSender is a class that's actually supplied to us from that
Spring Boot mail piece that we added to our POM earlier.
And those properties we added to our
application.properties has created this sender for us.
So it's already tied to our Spring‑enabled properties to fire off these emails.
So, at the top of our application, let's put a couple of things here.
We want to add a private String serverUrl.
And we're just going to hard code in a string here.
Now,
I will be the first one to admit that this should be
passed in through a properties,
from our application properties or some JNDI lookup or something else.
But this example is already starting to get complex,
and you can look up how to inject those properties from the
Spring Fundamentals course or some other example.
This is just to keep this sample smaller than what it was growing into.
We're going to autowire in our JavaMailSender.
So we'll say @Autowired.
And we want to pass in the private JavaMailSender.
And we'll assign that to a variable mailSender.
And save that.
And now we're going to also pass in our AccountService.
So we want to autowire in the AccountService,
and assign that to a variable accountService.
Now, we can use the AccountService to go out and create that verification token.
And what we're going to do with that is start off by saying
Account account = event.getAccount().
And that will get the confirm account message that was being fired off
from that event and make that available for us to use.
And then we're going to just use the random string functions to assign a token.
So I want to say token = UUID.randomUUID().toString().
And that will generate that token for us.
And now we can go out and save this to our database.
And we have not implemented all this functionality yet,
so we're going to carry this through all of the tiers.
As I mentioned, this does the heavier lifting for us.
So, we're going to say accountService.createVerificationToken.
And that token,
we're going to pass in the account object instance and
the string token that we have here.
And now let's go to our AccountServiceImpl and look at
what that is doing with this stuff.
And that's nothing yet,
so we need to go ahead and flush out the rest of the
account repository interaction here.
Before we call the createVerificationToken on our account repository though,
let's create a VerificationToken object.
I'm going to do that by going to our model,
right‑click, and say New, Java Class.
We'll call this VerificationToken.
And Enter.
And inside of here,
we're going to add a handful of fields and one utility method as well.
So, let's first put in here a public static final int,
and we'll call this EXPIRATION.
And we'll set that equal to 60 x 24.
And what we're looking for here is just that we're going to take and have
24 hours in a day and times at 60 minutes in an hour.
That will help us in a calculation we're going to do down below.
And then we want to pass in or store a string for the token.
So we'll have private String token, private String username.
And the last thing we're going to have in here is a private Date.
And we'll use the java.util.Date.
And we'll name this field expiryDate,
and that's just the date in which this will expire as a token.
Now, let's right‑click down below here and Generate, Getter and Setter.
And we will choose those three fields, not the static final int,
and generate those.
And then I'm going to add one more method down below here,
which is just a calculateExpiryDate, which you pass in a set number of minutes,
get the current time,
and then add to that an expiration number of minute,s
and return that back to the user.
And this is just going to help us set in our token
as to when that object expires.
So now we have our token set up, let's go back to our AccountServiceImpl,
and we can begin to flush that out.
And now we can take advantage of that verification token that we just created.
So we'll say VerificationToken verificationToken = new VerificationToken.
And we will set on that our username and token.
And then we can go ahead and also save that to our database.
So we'll go ahead and say username.
And now what we're going to want to create is on our account
repository a method that we will call which is saveToken.
And this will save that out to the database, but we
do not have that created yet.
So if we save this, we can go ahead and start implementing that now.
And if we hover over that red saveToken method,
it'll actually give us the option to create the method
saveToken in our account repository interface.
And if we save this,
it will give us the same message that we need to implement that
method inside of our AccountRepositoryImpl.
And if we hover over that red line,
it will give us the option to implement methods.
And we can choose saveToken down below,
and that will give us the shell to paste in our code into that saveToken method.
And I already have the JDBC template written for it
because it's a simple JDBC INSERT.
So I'm going to add that in here.
And you'll see that I take the data source that's injected in,
create a JDBC template.
I have the template that calls .update and issues an INSERT statement into a
table we're going to go create called verification_tokens,
which takes a username, token, and an expiry_date,
and we pass into that the verificationToken.getUsername(),
verificationToken.getToken().
And then we use that method we created, verificationToken.calculateExpiryDate,
and pass in our expiration in time.
So it was written to where you could pass in
different expirations if you wanted to,
but this takes the standard one that we have set in there by default.
Let's save this and go add that into our MySQL editor now for this table.
The verification_tokens table is actually quite simple.
In fact, it's just a CREATE TABLE statement with the name verification_tokens.
And it takes a username, which is a VARCHAR(50),
a token, which is a VARCHAR(100), an expiry_date,
which is of type DATETIME, all of which can be NOT NULL.
And then we set a primary key in there,
which is a compound PRIMARY KEY of the username and token.
Let's highlight this SQL and go ahead and execute it.
And then execute our commit statement.
And everything now is set up for us to run that against this table.
And we have all the pieces we need in place now.
Now all we need to do is configuration for the actual sending of the email,
and we're done with this portion of this module.
Switching back to our IDE, we can see that our saveToken is complete.
Now we just need to switch back to our AccountListener and fill out the
last two pieces of pseudocode that we have inside of here.
We're going to start off by creating a couple of variables. We're going
to do a String recipientAddress = account.getEmail().
So that's the email address associated with this account.
Then we're going to also do a String for the subject.
And inside of here you can honestly put whatever you want.
I'm going to do Account Confirmation.
And we'll close that line off.
Then we have a String confirmationUrl.
And this will take the event.getAppUrl.
And we're going to add to that string the context of /accountConfirm?token,
so we're building the URL string as we go here,
equal to, so we have a param token on the end of our URL now,
and we'll add the + token.
And close that off.
And then, finally, our message is String message = Please confirm.
We'll close that line off,
and now we're down to the actual email portion inside of here.
And we'll say SimpleMailMessage email = new SimpleMailMessage().
And in our email, we're going to say .setTo.
And that will be our recipientAddress.
And then in our email we're going to also set the subject.
And our subject will be the subject that we just created.
And then we have our text that we're going to set.
So we'll say setText.
And the text we set inside of here will be message +
"\r\n" + serverUrl + confirmationUrl.
And then finally, we'll say mailSender.send(email).
And that's everything we need to do to actually send that confirmation account.
So, all of our pieces are in place now, we've created our table,
we've created our repository call, our tokens,
calculated our expiration dates, which has stored
an expiration date in our table,
and we can expire people on that or delete them based off that expiration date,
and also we'll use that as part of our confirmation.
Let's fire up our server.
Once this all loads, all of our listeners will already be registered.
And when we fire off our message, it will show up in our email inbox now.
Alright, once our app is pulled up, let's go to that account URL.
Now let's go ahead and put some information inside of here.
And realize that if you use the same information that you had
before it might fail on your submission because we already have
created an account in our database.
So you may have to go delete that out of the database or
come up with some other information.
I am using a valid email address here because our event should fire off for us.
So, let's go ahead and put this information in,
hit Submit, and see what it does.
It has gone ahead and sent everything to our database.
And now if we open up our email and click Refresh on it,
we should see our account confirmation come through.
And it does.
If we click on this URL right now,
it's going to fail because we don't have a confirmed page for it to go to,
but it has done all the pieces that it was supposed to.
Gone out to the database, stored it, fired off the email,
gone through all the paces to do this.
So, we have everything in place now to confirm it.
Now all we've got to do is go through and grab this URL from
the back end and move some stuff from tables,
but you have all of the events being fired to actually confirm your account the correct way.